I got real bored one day farming for Clear Feathers and Wind Caps to make money,
so I used nano_biquts tempering calculator with the info from the 
Mystic Card database here in the LoM_Kitchen to make some, well, not new recipes.
I'm sure they've already been found or are considered too much effort for not enough return.
Nonetheless, these recipes make some fair amount of cash with relatively easy-to-get items.

I had acquired a vast amount of Holly Wood from trying to get Dior Wood for awesome tempering.
So all the recipes below are used with Holly Wood.  Only a few changes need be made for other materials.

Dryad Silver (or any non-Spiny seed)
Needle (Needlettuce)
4 Springananas

The Springananas make the Heaven's Scale cards.
I had a surplus of them from trying to make Fishy Fruit and Rocket Papayas.
Now they have a use for other than taking up space in the inventory.

Lucre: 7200+


Moon Crystal (or Mush-in-a-Box)
Mush-in-a-Box
Earth Stone
Water Stone
2 Meats
4 Heart Mints

The Heart Mints make the Mother of Gods cards.
Again, I had a surplus of these while making Pine O' Clocks (for making more money, heh).
With non-wood materials (except for MaiaLead), use the following:

Moon Crystal (or Mush-in-a-Box)
Mush-in-a-Box
2 Earth Stones
2 Water Stones
4 Heart Mints

Lucre: 16000+


Wisp Silver
Sun Crystal
2 Fire Stones (or any other one element Stone)
4 Spade Basils

The Spade Basils make the Ruler of Sky cards.
I didn't have as big a surplus of these like the Heart Mints, so I bought a few at the Bone Fortress.
I'll admit, this one requires some more pricy or harder to get items.
However, that's why you can farm the Sun Crystals from the Polterboxes on the SS Buccaneer.
Then play some tunes for a Wisp for some silvers and BAM!

You can use non-wood materials, but you will have to add another crystal or silver to increase Wisp to 3
and some more stones to increase the total essences to 7.

Lucre: 20000+


These recipes are not as big as the 26643 Windcaps or the 40k Pine O' Clock items,
but they make great for items that are hardly ever used.

Big ups to nano_biquts for the tempering calculator.  I would be lost without it.
And horns for tagged_jc for compiling the database of Mystic Cards.

