1. Getting 20s
The easy way to increase your stats is to make a yggdrasil card. Every time
you temper an item with a visible yggdrasil card the stats will increase by 1.
Yggdrasil only has a stat limit of 10, so without help thats as high as your
stats would go. The only cards with a +20 stats limit are the evil god cards
EGC. EGCs lower all stats whenever they are visible, so with 1 EGC and 1
yggdrasil your stats would only stay the same. But since the game doesn't keep
track of stats over 20 its important that the yggdrasil comes after the EGC.
In order for your stats to rise you need to either add items which raise stats
or have another yggdrasil. Having two yggdrasils is tricky because yggdrasil
is a world card. Thats a problem because world cards normally won't appear if
another is present. A bed of thorn BoT card will allow us past this world card
limitation.
Now we can put together our first recipe.

Yggdrasil - spiny seed, dryad 5+
Beast-Headed God (an EGC) - poison fang, dryad 5+, aura=0
Bed of Thorn - needle or needlettuce, dryad 1+, sala=0

round seed
3 sulpher
round seed (dryad is now at 5)
needle
spiny seed
poison fang
spiny seed
lilipod
9 meat

The lilipod is needed to push on the second yggdrasil so they are both
visible. Almost any card producer would work in its place. After that you just
need to keep adding cardless items (meats are usually the easiest to come by)
until the stats get to 20.


2. Avoiding No Regen
But there is a problem. BoT left us with the no regen effect. Quick
regeneration is the most noticable benifit of high stats, so getting another
effect is important. The only other effect for most equipment is the move
regen and no revive effect from Heavens Scale.

Heavens Scale - springana

round seed
3 sulpher
round seed
needle
springana
spiny seed
poison fang
spiny seed
lilipod
9 meat

Another option is to just use items to raise the stats. Dragon blood and
toadstoolshed will both raise all stats.

round seed
3 sulpher
round seed
poison fang
spiny seed
lilipod
12 dragon blood

Dragon bloods and toadstoolsheds are both hard to come by. Its sometimes worth
the effort to raise the stats upto 12 on a clown+metropolis combo before
bringing out the EGC to finish it off.

Clown - bumpkin
Metropolis - dialaurel, shade 1+, sala=0

moon crystal
round seed
3 sulpher
round seed
spiny seed
bumpkin
dialaurel
lilipod
6 meat
poison fang
spiny seed
lilipod
3 toadstoolshed


3. Other EGCs
Poison fangs can also be hard to find at times. So here are some other ways to
make EGCs.

Fallen Angel - angel feather, wisp 5+, shade=0
Wings of Darkness - blackened bat, shade 5+, wisp=0
Beast-headed God - poison fang, dryad 5+, aura=0
God of Destruction - sharp claw, sala 5+, undine=0
Leviathan - orange'opus or giants horn, gnome 5+, sala=0
Lord of Flies - clear feather, jinn 5+, gnome=0
Witch of Moon - vampire fang, undine 5+, jinn=0

EGCs can be transformed from pixies with a ragnarok card.
Note that ragnarok is a world card.

Ragnarok - pine oclock, sala 1+, gnome 1+, jinn 1+, undine 1+
Leviathan - Purple Hat Pixie - silly eye or knockout dust
Fallen Angel - Red Hat Pixie - little eye
Witch of Moon - Blue Hat Pixie - sleepy eye or rust
Lord of Flies - Yellow Hat Pixie - blank eye or sleepy powder
Beast-Headed God - No Hat Pixie - dangerous eye
Wings of Darkness - Black Hat Pixie - wicked eye or stinky breath
God of Destruction - Light Blue Hat Pixie - angry eye or poison powder

EGCs can also be kept around by sacrificed nymph cards.
If an EGC would have left when a sac nymph is present the EGC will take the
sac nymphs place and the sac nymph will leave.

Sacrificed Nymph - ghosts howl


4. Other Effects
Some equipment can have effects other than those from BoT/Heavens Scale.
Some of these are quite useful.

All     - No Regen - Bed of Thorn - needle or needlettuce, dryad 1+, sala=0
        - Move Regen, No Revive - Heavens Scale - springana
Mantle  - Move Regen  - Nymph of Sky - white feather, wisp 1+, total 3+
Shield  - Stare Immunity - Wisdom Goddess - aroma oil, total 6+
Shoes   - Extra Exp   - Spirit of Shoes - loquat shoes or pear oheels
Pedant  - Extra Lucre - Goddess of Love - virgins sigh, shade 3+, dryad 3+
        - Auto Revive - Volcano - ash
                        + Phoenix - flaming quill, sala 3+, jinn 3+
        - Fast Revive - Spring - fishy fruit
                        + Unicorn - whalamato, gnome 3+, undine 3+
Ring    - Share Exp   - Fertility Goddess - ear of wheat, dryad 3+, total 5+
        - Extra Lucre - Spirit of Housework - hairball
        - Fast Revive - Nymph of Orchards - applesocks, total 5+
        - Fast Revive - Spring + Unicorn
        - Auto Revive - Volcano + Phoenix

The auto revive effect will go away if no phoenix cards are visible or one
is in the hidden slot. One phoenix card is removed everytime you auto revive,
and that can cause the effect to go away too.


5. Equipment Recommendations
There are a lot of choices. What should you use?
Move regen is quite nice, particuarly when you can still revive. But if any of
your equipment has the BoT effect it won't work. Stare immunity is fine, but
shields can only be used with swords. Extra exp is good because you level
faster, but shoes can't be worn with Armor. Extra lucre is pretty worthless.
Enemies drop an insignifigant amount of money compared to tempering wind hats.
Auto revive kinda sucks. You have to be the last one in your party standing
for it to work. And if it works then you have to retemper it. Fast revive is
better, but its even better not to die ;) Neither revive effect will work if
any of your equipment has the Heavens Scale effect. Share exp is good and bad.
It takes any exp you collect and splits it among your party. This means it
takes longer for you to level, but its the only good way to get exp for your
pets. 

In the beginning I'd go with shoes, mantle, and a share exp ring.
After you collect the materials for an all immunity pendant you'll want to
work that into the mix. You could replace the mantle with a Heavens Scale
pendant or you could replace the shoes with a fast revive pendant. Since
dying isn't a very likely or costly event I'd stick with the extra exp from
the shoes.

As you get up in levels all your stats but luck will be maxed even without 3
pieces of equipment. Then it might be worth the effort to make a set of high
defense equipment. If you're using a sword go with armor, shield, pendant.
Otherwise go with armor, mantle, pendant.